A real time text recognition system for natural scenes is a topic that quite captures every ones attention because it sounds imaginative and exciting to even think of the possibility of a computer to process videos almost cognitively as any human. Reading text in any natural scenes has been brought back into focus of many researchers due to the increasing availability of image capturing devices such as mobile phones, video cameras etc. There has been considerable amount of research done on machine reading systems for more than fifty years and as a result the current OCR packages now operate with high speed and accuracy on standard text documents.
The commercial OCR systems do not work for natural scene images because in those images the text is usually present on complex backgrounds and there are many other factors like geometric distortions, partial occlusions, changes in illumination, different font styles, font thickness, font color and texture etc. Therefore, the problem of text recognition of such images remains an active and exciting research topic.
The main aim of the project is to implement the idea of detecting and recognize the text automatically from the captured image in the random environment. This is different than structured scenes, which contain the known scenarios where the position of the text is known beforehand.
In this project, a four step system which automatically detects and extracts the text in the images is proposed. First, detecting the texts using the MSER technology in which several non-text regions are detected alongside the text. Second, those non-text regions are removed on geometric properties. Third, those non-text regions which are detected in the previous steps are removed using stroke width variation and then better text bounding boxes are generated by using the binarized text as strokes. Text is then cleaned and binarized from these new boxes. Finally, if the text is of an OCR-recognizable font, it is passed through a commercial OCR engine for recognition.
The system is stable, robust, and works well on images (with or without structured layouts) from a wide variety of sources, including digitized video frames, photographs, newspapers, advertisements, stock certificates, and personal checks.
